>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So an input allows
data to flow from a parent component to
a child component.
And we use the input directive or
decorator to do this.
So we'll see this in the child component.
So in the child component,
we're defining input [someValue].
Then on the parent template,
we then expose that as a property and
we bind to it.
Now, if you wanted to bind to
it as one name in the parent and
then have it reference internally as
something else, you can create an alias.
This is actually not recommended, but if
you needed to for some reason, you could.
The point is on the child you say,
here's my input using the input decorator.
And then now that is a property that's
available to the parent to bind to.
So, let's look at this code here.
We have MyComponent, and
I'm trading an Input of greeting.
So it's even being defined as a property.
I'm defining a property
called greeting and
I'm exposing it via the input metadata.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And then you notice
this property is also available internally
to the child to be bound to.
So tnhe rules of binding,
internally they still work.
But, now on the parent component,
because we created a greeting input
in the parent template we say,
I wanna bind to this property or this
input and I'm going to set it to this.
So you can see here they're setting it,
and so when this gets rendered the child
component's gonna say what property do you
have for me, it's like well, Hello child.
We'll take that and that's what
it'll bind to in the child template.
So it's taking the value from the parent
and binding to it in the child.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
output does the reverse, it exposes
an EventEmitter property so
that it can emit events.
So just like when you click,
the DOM is emitting a click event.
By using EventEmitter we can
create our own custom events.
So inside a child component,
using the output decorator,
we're going to create an event
called showValue, and so
we instantiate it to New EventEmitter.
And so now, essentially we've got
this EventEmitter in place that
when we're ready to fire it off,
then we'll admit it.
But on the parent, all we know is
that we have an output of some value.
And when this thing emits its event or
it fires,
we're gonna call handle value
on the parent component.
So here you can see that I have greeter,
new EventEmitter.
And then when somebody clicks on
the template we're calling greet,
which then calls this.greeter.emit,
and it emits this string.
And then on the parent component,
it's saying whenever greeter fires
call greet and pass the event,
or whatever you pass up into
the parent component for handling.
Now I will say this has
kind of bit me a few times.
Is that when you're using
an output the parameter for
the method that you called,
has to be event.
So that's just kinda the way it works.
So it's event on the template but then in,
you can pass whatever you want when
you call emit but this has to be here.
For whatever reasons, I just had
to go honking on it like give up,
I'm just going back dollar event.
And because you are in
a sense passing an event,
a custom event that then once it
gets into your parent totally fine.